# Analysis of ESA Bundle Protocol and LTP implementations
### Abstract
The advent of the space age demands robust communication infrastructures to support operations in the harsh interplanetary space environment. The software infrastructure and network architecture required for space missions have been studied extensively since the 2000s. This research led to the development of the Delay/Disruption Tolerant Networking (DTN) architecture, with the Bundle Protocol (BP) at its core, and to associated new protocols, such as the Licklider Transmission Protocol (LTP). The current version of the Bundle Protocol is version 7, standardized in RFC 9171 and currently in the final phases of standardization by the Consultative Committee for Space Data Systems (CCSDS), an international organization composed of major space agencies specifically focused on space communication development. The objective of this thesis was to collaborate with the European Space Agency (ESA) to analyze and test its new implementations of BP and LTP. This software was made available to us by ESA developers at thesis start, thus the tests described in this thesis were most likely the first performed outside ESA. The aim of the analysis was to understand the general workings of ESA’s implementations and to test their adherence to the standard. The analysis included and extended a range of interoperability tests with ION, one of the reference BP implementations; tests were later extended to other BP implementations, such as Unibo-BP, DTNME and µDTN. The test campaign not only provided ESA developers with independent feedback, including the discovery of few bugs, but also revealed some unexpected problems in well-established implementations. This highlights once more the necessity for independent interoperability testing, crucial to ensure the resilience required by critical infrastructures such as future space communication systems.
